I think that we should give it one more minute. It is one minute after the hour.
We have a hundred and ten folks in here, but I am sure that we are going to have
a few more people trickle in. So let's give it just another minute. I just
posted in the in the Discord channel where to find this, how to get here, and
we will... oh, we already have a question from Noor. All right. We have two
questions from Noor, technically. Oh, yeah, okay. So I missed that. Waffles or
pancakes? I'm more of a waffles person. I just like those little squares you can
put syrup in and they just they just get held there and like the geometry of it
is just wonderful. And to the actual question, well, it's great tables. Well,
there was GT. So what led to that, I guess, by extension? It was an open
project like a long time ago. I don't know. There was like this Google Doc
that we had and I just had a bunch of stuff we could work on. I looked through
it. I was like I saw this tables like task was like one line saying like big
grammar of tables for for R and I was like, yeah, let's do this. And I'm not
sure how I got the name GT probably from grammar of tables, probably from good
tables. I'm not even sure anymore. That was a long time ago. But yeah, basically,
it was just like something someone wrote down. I just ran with it. Sometimes it
happens that way, Livy. You just you see something, it's pretty innocuous and you
just like do it and it becomes...
As a person who teaches other people how to code, that's the number one question
I get. New people are like, what does GT mean? I don't get it. What does GT mean?
I found myself like, oh, I don't actually know. Let me go Google.
I try to give this air of mystery, but not really saying too much. You know, I
kind of want people to have their own interpretations, you know, that sort of
thing. I think I found explanations online in other places, quickly Googling
where I was like other people sort of positing like I think it stands for
grammar of tables.
Yeah, that's like fan fiction in some way. Like they're just hoping it's for
grammar of tables. And maybe it is. I don't even know myself.
Oh my gosh, Rich not establishing canon here. Okay.
Yeah, I mean, it could be wherever you want it to be. And I do have a strong
sort of like, like a car motif going on in that package with the data sets. So
it could just be like, like a type of car, like a Grand Tourer.
You heard it here, Rich refusing to establish.
I refuse.
All right. Well, why don't we first take a moment to admire Jeff's guitar?
That's amazing. Oh my god.
Is that what you shared in the channel?
Let me look at that. Is that a 4003? What is that? Okay, let's see here.
Let's dissect the zoom in on the, I can't see model and the number. Jeff, I
really like your guitar.
And you got an orange amp. Nice. I got one too in the corner. You see that?
It's a it's an orange crush. Yeah, it's really nice.
All right, well, beyond the impromptu concerts and the sharing of bass guitars.
Um, let's go on to Dami's question. Dami says, I'm a bit embarrassed, but I wish
I had more experience in contributing to open source projects or even making
packages. Can you give me some tips?
Yeah, okay. So I used to be like, well, okay, I didn't know what to do when I was
when I got an interest in like doing our stuff. Of course, I use it for like
analysis one time ago. And like, maybe I should make packages. It seems like, you
know, a good thing to do. And people are doing it. But how do I kind of break into
that? Like, what do I even do? It was tough. I mean, like, I sort of fed over
that for like, you know, like weeks. And eventually, I just did something that was
aligned to my work, like what I need to do anyways, but just sort of merge it into
our into like a package. Like, oh, my God, I'll get back to that. All these
guitars and basses. But it was really just like trying to find something that you
really wanted to work on and like throwing yourself into it. And it didn't matter
what it was. That was just, you know, the first project could be anything, you're
just kind of like learning. And other ideas are just like, things you like in
other packages, and you just kind of do it yourself. I mean, it's kind of like
copying, but maybe it's recreating. But it's also like a good sort of like
learning opportunity. It doesn't matter what you do initially, I think. And
eventually, you'll start finding stuff, I think is, is like what I found. After just
making a few packages, I found like, oh, man, now I gotta make these packages
because I just found stuff that was like, you know, not to my liking. So then I just
got more into it. So it's a, it's a tough thing getting going. You just have to do
anything that is vaguely going to keep your attention.
Do anything.
I think I think so. Yeah. I mean, try to be excited about it. If it's exciting.
Yeah, that's the thing is like, I would say, don't limit yourself to something that
you think is going to be valuable to other people. Right? Like, do the thing
that's going to keep you engaged in doing it, because that's going to give you the
learning process. Like I've done things and built things that nobody's going to
look at. They don't care about them. It doesn't solve any problem for them. But it
gave me something that I really wanted to do.
Yeah, exactly.
I wanted to ask you, Rich, what your origin story is. What's your posit origin
story? How did you end up here?
Yeah, so originally, I did nothing like what I'm doing now. It was what I was
doing was like, I was doing chemistry stuff, like air quality stuff. So I got a
degree in chemistry. And then I sort of flipped over to like air quality
consulting. And that really is just like, working at a company doing, you know,
like, stuff that's vaguely science based, like air quality stuff. It's, it's
hard to explain. I didn't kind of forgot what it is at this point, because it's
been so long since I've done it. But that's what I did. And, and that's where I
started doing our stuff. Like it was like, like, right there is like, these using
Excel, it's like, that's fine. But I didn't really want to do that. Because it
was so slow and like, not reproducible, in the least. So I moved a bunch of stuff
to like our packages. Well, first of all, just like our scripts, and then like
slowly migrate them into packages. And then that's where I kind of got the bug
to just do the stuff like all the time. And then it's just, you know, posted
original packages that had less and less to do with that, you know, line of work.
And yeah, eventually, I just, I had to like, you know, do that full time,
because I really wanted to. So then I contacted Posit, or back then RStudio,
for job prospects, and it somehow worked out. I'm not sure how, but it did.
Do you miss chemistry?
I mean, a little bit, but not really. Like it was, I mean, it's great. I'll
always love it. And I think it's super interesting. You know, topic discipline,
you know, everything about it is great. But I don't think I really do. Actually,
I barely think about it. And when I do, I'm like, it's just like nostalgic sort
of thing. I don't regret doing it, obviously, like it was, you know, like
everything I did was like, you know, like, totally no regrets. So like, totally
fine.
Well, while we're while we're still in the past, yeah, rapid fire questions from
Dami that are follow ups to this. What was your first package that you developed?
It wasn't GT, was it?
No, I think it was a let me think here. I think it was like for an air quality
model, called high split is either high split or another one, like cowpuff. These
are like sort of like these, these models you have to use to sort of like gauge
whether plumes of, you know, emitted hydrocarbons will affect another area far
away or, or maybe it won't. And basically, they require tons of inputs, you just
run it through like this model, which is basically just an executable, you get
some results. And basically, what I did was like a sort of like a front end for
that basically just preparing inputs and, you know, shoving it into the model and
getting useful, useful outputs.
Awesome. Yeah, I mean, I think people can relate to that.
Yeah, it's like work stuff, essentially.
Oh, Mike, no questions in Slido for this. We're all we're asking in, in, in
discord. If you have asked questions in Slido, they are for the virtual day
speakers, I will have to go check them out and make sure that I can see them.
I'm gonna scroll back a bit to to Mike, Mike Smith's post. He's got a bunch of
like really cool bases are a Lackland and like, I think a six string. If I'm
seeing correctly. I'm just trying to count. I think it is. Yeah, I've got one
myself. Not that one. I've got like four there. Yeah, yeah. Some really good stuff
here. Yeah, Mike, this is great.
First one that's really long. That looks like a dulcimer or something.
Yeah, what is that? I sort of recognize that it does look like a dulcimer. Mike,
can you elaborate?
Yeah, Mike, we need to know if this is now an AK Smith.
Five jazz clone, Conklin GT seven string bass. Oh my god, that's what I thought.
Okay, it looks like too many tuning machines to be just six string.
Okay, well, there was, there was a pretty long question from from Jeff, if you want
to scroll back up and read that about the point blank package. Can you see that one?
Yes, I believe it's a point blank 2020. Yes. Okay. So Jeff, I'm gonna read the
question. I didn't quite know how to work with it in my workflow at the time. But a
couple of years later, I had a chance to dive in and rethink things. I really just
how great point blank is for data validation and HTML report is a great little
artifact to include in my data pins. Oh, pins. Love it. What's next for point blank?
Okay, so the R version is still being maintained, although I haven't got back to
it recently. But my plan is to go back to that quite a bit and introduce a lot of
stuff that I did in the Python version of point blank, which is what I've been doing
for the last six months or so, maybe even a bit longer at this point. So, okay, so
split into two. I'm doing a bunch of R stuff, but I'm also doing way more Python
stuff recently. So some of the things I've been doing is porting packages over from R
to Python. Like GT has become gray tables in Python and point blank has become
capitalized point blank in Python. But what I'm aiming to do after a nice round of
Python stuff to establish sort of like a beachhead for myself in Python is to go back
to the R stuff and include, you know, do some well-needed maintenance and also to
take some of the stuff that I did in the Python stuff in the Python versions of those
packages and reintroduce those into the R packages. Because some good stuff there and,
you know, I worked on them more recently, so there's some new ideas and, you know,
some other nice goodies in there. So what's next for point blank? I think it's that.
Yeah, basically make reports which are scoped to individual steps because right now you
can get a whole report of how the validation went down, but you don't get granular detail
on each and every step, which I think would be the next big thing. On top of fixing some
bugs that cropped up in a year or two of not really being there.
Bugs. Say it ain't so. Everybody gets bugs, even Rich.
Bugs happen. Yeah.
Well, there are a couple of questions that are in the Slido. I'm so sorry, everybody,
I think I confused you because the Slido link exists, but it's for the virtual day speakers,
but that's okay. I can see them. One of them says GT gets a lot of deserved love,
but what's coming for point blank? We covered that one. I think that that might have been Mike.
Thanks, Mike. The other one is how do you deal with pull requests created by other people
that you didn't respond to initially? How do you deal with contributors, actually?
Yeah, just generally. I'm leaving them for a while sometimes.
Well, I mean, I guess the question is, how do you handle the project management side
of being a maintainer for a package, whether it's R or Python?
Yeah, and I'll frame it in terms of PRs as well. I basically, I want people to submit PRs.
And because I may miss a lot of obvious things. I mean, I try to be a user. I try to put my user
head on once in a while to sort of understand what people really need out of this thing I'm making,
but it doesn't always work. It doesn't always take. So I welcome PRs for things people actually
need. Like I need this to do my work. So I love that stuff. And I'll take any PRs.
And if they don't quite jive with the way the package is, I'll work with the PR contributor
and shape it to make it fit nicely with what is there or what it needs to be.
As for some things like PRs that sit for a while, if that has even been brought up,
I feel bad about that. But I do try to revisit those once in a while. And if it's been years
and it's like, that's a really bad on me sort of thing. But usually for the most part, it doesn't
get to that point. Usually they may sit around for like a month, maybe even less. Sometimes
they're taken real fast. But I at least try to talk to the people as they come in. Like this
may be a while till we get to your PR. But generally I love PRs. I think that it's important
to talk about the process of what getting a PR might look like because open source developers
like Rich don't just work on one package. They work on all kinds of things. So this might be
like a small portion of their week. And then you get a PR and you have to go through an entire
review process. You have to do testing. You have to make sure that everything works.
So sometimes those things might just sort of stack up in a backlog as not super mission critical
things. But it doesn't mean that we don't love the PRs that are coming in.
It's totally opposite. Yeah, we do love PRs coming in. And sometimes that's the case. Like
I have to bounce around between a bunch of things. And sadly, some things become stagnant
for like months, maybe even a year, maybe even longer. It's actually really sad
that it has to be that way. But it's just like...
But we can't do every single cool thing. I wish that we could, but we would have to be
several people at one time. Well, I saw that Ben has a question in the chat and Discord,
if you wanted to take a look at that. It says, hey Rich, having developed similar functionality
in R and Python packages, what functionality slash syntax do you wish existed in R or Python
that is easier to write or read in the other language? Do you ever do that where you're like,
oh, I wish Python just did this thing like R or oh, I wish R just did this thing like Python?
Yeah. I mean, I kind of wish Python had like a pipe. I mean, it's kind of like...
Ooh, a native pipe.
Yeah. Yeah. Like just had it. And it's kind of funny because I try to bring up...
I mean, I try to make things pipe-like by always having like method chaining,
and you just return the same object itself. So with great tables, for instance, it's kind of like
R-like in that you can sort of chain things. And you can, if you just imagine it,
pretend it has a pipe at the end of each line, but instead we have a dot at the beginning of
each line. So we try to keep it close. I think it's great, like making small changes that stack
up to like a big change in the end. And it's not totally unheard of to do it in Python. It's
actually quite common, I would say, to do that. But I love that way of doing things. But I kind
of wish there was just a pipe to make it sort of like... So it was like the accepted way for
lots of things. Yeah. So that's a good thing. Gregory says, I think we all wish we had static
typing. Yes. Because Jeff said, I wish Python had a pipe and I wish R had type hints.
Yes, exactly. That would be great. R having type hints would be great. When I started doing Python
again, I was pleasantly surprised that we have all these things. The last time I used it before
that was like 2.7, those kind of days, which didn't have that. And I came back to it and it's
like, oh my God, Python has all this stuff now and it's wonderful. It's like, oh, this is a great
language. I mean, I thought it was good before, but then I was blown away because I've been away
for a while. I haven't used 3 at all. Yeah. That's the wonderful thing about
open source in general, is if you came from the SaaS world, SAS, SaaS world especially,
where like innovations take 10 years to make it to SaaS, you get those changes in R or Python
really, really quickly because people are developing for them. And the fact that
packages change so quickly is both the worst and the best thing about open source.
All right. Ice cream. Yeah. Rapid fire. I want to talk about ice cream. My favorite ice cream
flavor that was asked by John Cohen. I think it's like, I think it's either like strawberry and
maybe, okay, this is going to be like a little bit odd, banana. Because I began these like
Molona bars for like a long time and I stick to the banana flavor and it seems really odd for like
ice cream, but it just works. And it's not like, it's more like a popsicle type format, but it's
ice cream, right? That counts. My favorite flavor. Actually. So there used to be a banana split flavor
of ice cream from Bluebell. Really? But it was amazing. Yeah. All right. How about Bethany's
question? Bethany says, as someone who's relatively new to the R space, around two years of experience,
what would be your biggest word of advice to those just getting started and how would you
recommend getting your name out there slash networking in the Posit world? Okay. Yeah. Great.
Because I was there too. Basically, yeah, just like can make your own open source package and
just advertise it on like wherever you want, like Blue Sky, LinkedIn, that's typically where I go.
And it could be, it could be just anything. You just have to like, like I said before,
it could be any project that is interesting to you to sustain your interest in that.
Because I didn't want to feel like drudgery and then you can, you can branch out to other
things, which you find later, which are, you know, maybe like a bit better than the original
project, but you have to start somewhere. Right. So yeah, basically that's kind of it. Just like
start on any, any project. It could be like a copy of another project. That's totally fine because
you're just like learning and getting out there and really, yeah, it's just, it's, it's tough.
And it's, it's been so long since I've been that in that position myself, but it was kind of like
just do anything. That's what I did. And it was not great when I did the beginning. Yeah.
It was not great. Okay. I will say Rich is really great at connecting with the community,
just putting himself out there and sharing what he's doing. And honestly, that's the scariest
first step. Just share it. I have a lot of people send me stuff on, on LinkedIn where they're like,
Hey, can you share this? Or can you ask this to the community? And I'm like, no, you do that.
That's, that's the, that's how you get your footing and build your community of practice
around you. You have to be the one who's willing to go ask people the questions and be interested
in them. You share things. All right, let's move on. See how many questions we can stuff in here.
It is 21 minutes after the hour. We are hanging out live with Rich until 45 minutes after the hour.
And then the feed is going to go down, but Rich is going to hang out in the Discord and still be
chatting. I'll be around. Yeah. Okay. So let's see. Someone asked a question, but I do not know
what their name is. Their, their display name is El Linguista. El Linguista, if you would change
your display name to your real name, that'd be great. So we know who you are. How do you decide
when to switch when new things become available in Base R, like the new pipe and R strings? Oh,
that's a good question. Yeah. So like, yeah, I still have a bunch of MacGyver pipes everywhere
in my, in my R packages because I'm too afraid to switch over, but I know eventually maybe it's
now's the time. What? Rich, it's been years. I know, but it's like I'm supporting myself. Everyone
roasts Rich for not using the native pipe. I think, I know it's been years, but like, um, heads up,
is that enough even? Um, I think maybe now's the time to like switch over at least my examples for
a lot of things or just like in MacGyver. Totally fine. I mean, but also want to make sure that
things work nicely in like the, you know, the R base pipe basically. Um, and so I won't know that
until I move over all these docs and examples. That's what I was thinking is like, well, you want
everything to play nice with the installations of R that people are putting on their machines, right?
Yeah. Yeah. So I think, I think maybe I don't think about it too much based on my, my, uh,
my current track record. ChatGPT has definitely not moved over to the native pipe. Everything
that comes out of ChatGPT or Cloud, I think as well as is MacGyver pipes. ChatGPT is nostalgic
for the, for the old days. We all are. We all miss our funny looking pipe. Um, all right, we have
more questions rolling in. So let's take a look at some of them. We had one from Dami that said,
if you had all the time in the world, is there a niche package, like the silliest thing that you
would work on? Oh yeah. Yeah, definitely. There's just stuff like, um, oh my God. Uh, so I've
actually worked on a bunch of niche packages, which I haven't talked about much. One was like
creating sort of like SVG graphics, like animated things. And I thought that was like so far outside
of what I was normally doing that it felt like just like a, like a passion project or a hobby
project. And I sort of like stopped working on that, but like, I want more of that in my life.
I mean, I'm trying to do more look a little weird things. Um, so everyone should do more
little weird things. Yeah. I mean like, why not? And, uh, you, you've learned a ton of stuff,
like another, okay. More recent example in, in Python and getting out of our, sorry.
Uh, but I've been doing this, I've been sort of like experimenting with like, uh,
like terminal based things, like, you know, like, uh, interactive terminal applications,
sometimes called TUIs or terminal UIs. And I've got this little thing, which is kind of like,
uh, a small package, which I never talk about because I don't think it's that great, uh, yet.
And I haven't really, you know, like tested it much, but yet, but it's called sweet. Uh,
cause I love the word and it's like a good exclamation. And basically just like a little
Google sheets in your, in your terminal, um, which I'm not sure if that's ill-advised or
if that's even good, but that's what it is. And I thought it'd be kind of fun to do that.
Um, cause imagine you just got like a little CSV. You just make some small edits, save it.
You can do it inside, inside there in your terminal. If you, if you like your terminal,
even. Nice. I like it. All right, great. Let's head back up to Gregory who asked a question,
um, about sort of that R to Python transition thing. How is it being a developer straddling
CRAN, PyPI and CondaForge? I've seen interesting discourse when it comes to reverse dependencies
in CRAN versus the free-for-all of PyPI and everyone else. This is very true.
Yeah. You just submit it and nobody even like gets to you. There's no, there's no person. You
just do what you want. I mean, that's refreshing, but also dangerous. I wonder if like, um,
you know, packages, cause you know, great tables, which I work on in Python,
it has dependencies. Like people depend on it, but I have no idea if it, if my thing is,
if I make changes, it's going to break their things. We don't even, there's not even really
a culture of like looking at reverse dependencies and, and, you know, like making sure like running
tests. There's no, I mean, as far as I can tell you, you install the other package manually and
you, you know, you test yourself, but there's no, there's no way of way of doing it. So, um,
that's a little scary and not great because, you know, in R you have all that stuff. You have
those guardrails and checks in place. Um, so actually that, that makes it easier because I
don't have to worry too much about, you know, two crans essentially and all the scrutiny that's
involved in two different ecosystems, but also a bit scary. Um, and in terms of like, um,
in terms of like, um, getting back to R stuff generally, I just, there's a few questions here.
Uh, like one by Robert, which says great tables to gain more love than GT on R. This is kind of
similar because it's traveling the two different universes. Is the future segment to be a parody
between the two implementations? I'm like, yes, I'm going towards that, um, on the Python side
and also on the R side, I am putting a release of GT out like really soon. It was supposed to be
like this week. So in between virtual conf, I will get that release out. It's got some really
good stuff in it, by the way. Um, GT for R that is. Um, but yeah, it's kind of like, I just go
between both worlds and I'm like, oh, I forgot about R. What is all this? No, it's not like that.
I mean, it is for an instant. It's like, oh, all this stuff. Um, but it's fun, actually. It's fun.
It's like two different, like separate separate piles of like work, which I can just, you know,
different rooms as it were. Different compartments in your brain. I have a hard time with that. I
teach both R and Python and switching between the two. I once had a whole semester where I taught
both R and Python on Wednesdays and Wednesdays were like same day. Yeah. It was so hard for my
brain to switch back and forth. Okay. Well, we gotta, we gotta go back up cause we've got like
five questions in backlog that I would love to do and see how many we can get through here. Um, one
is from Jeff Pinnell, which is, have you ever developed an internal project that you decided
you would want to transition to become a public package? And if so, what did that process look
like? Might be a good question for the chat as well. Yeah, I've got, I've got a bunch of those.
Like I brought like basically like my own projects to, to Posit or back then RStudio that I've
worked on myself. And I just said like, this would, this would be good for, you know, the company. Can
I just switch, switch it over to the, to the org? Like, you know, so it's not under my own ownership,
but it's more like Posit has it now. And I've done that in the past quite a few times. Actually,
that's what happened with Point Blank essentially. And what happened with Blastula as well.
And I'm trying to think of others that there's been small packages that, that I've, I've gone
through the same sort of process, like I developed it in my own sort of account. Rich, did you make
Blastula? Yeah. Yeah. That was, I did not know that. Yeah. I mean, I haven't worked on it in a
while, so like, I feel like it's not, I feel like I'm twice removed from it now or something.
But yeah, I've worked on that and we're trying to get that going for Python in the future. And
someone else will be working on that initially. That's amazing. We love Blastula. Jorge said,
tell us more about Blastula. Like, do you want to give a quick rundown on what it is?
Okay. Yeah. So basically what it is, is it's a way to, to get emails, like with information
through R out to people. And let me tell you like interesting stories about that. In the beginning,
it was not easy to do that nicely. Because like email sending involved for things like
Malar, which involved Java, which nobody likes maybe. And it didn't involve like a go package,
which had to be, you know, like included, like bundled. And now we can just do it through curl,
which has nice email sending or email creation and sending abilities. So we just focus on the
message body itself, which is not, you know, a small thing, but basically, okay. So Blastula,
imagine this. You have some analysis and you have some plots and maybe you have some tables
and you want to send a report through email. So you can do that through there. You just sort of
create like a, like a bit of text, which is the body you can include through, through functions.
Like I want this ggplot to be in there. I want this, this GT table to be in there.
Throw some text in there. It can be dynamic because, you know, we're in a programming language.
And then it just sends, as long as you have an SMTB server, or you could do it through a connect,
which is a really awesome way of doing it. We have sort of an API layer and we just
send it right through to connect and it just does it. It's all scheduled.
Yeah. There's that, like, if you are not using Posit professional products, Blastula is the way
to go to email out the stuff that you are working on and want to share with people.
If you do have access to Posit professional products and you have Posit Connect,
there is a schedule in there where you can schedule emails from there.
Yeah.
All right.
That's great.
Let's see how many more we can get in, in the last 15 minutes that we have here on air. Jorge,
thanks for asking about Blastula. Real quick, Luke asked, cat person or dog person? Very important.
Oh, I try to, I mean, I'm in both worlds. I have a beagle,
which was just scratching on the door a while back. So I was distracted. Maybe,
hopefully not visibly so, but like the dog doesn't always, okay. So I got two, two cats,
which I love. They're such cuties and they've been around for a while and I've always had cats,
but more lately, the last six years had a dog that beagle and it's such a cute dog. I wish I
had a photo here of it. It doesn't always come in here. It just wants to be in the same level
with me sometimes, but not always want to see me. It's kind of weird.
Okay. Rich, I'm giving you homework. When we're done with this, go post pictures of your pets in
the Posit Conf Pets channel. I helped Rich open up all the channels so that he could see them.
So now he's exposed to all of them. He's going to go find the pets channel.
Oh, you mean the Posit Conf Pets? Yes.
Posit, yeah.
Yes, yes. I'm going to get some photos in there.
Wonderful.
Let's go to, let's see, Jeff had a question far, far up there. It says,
how do you decide between porting a package to the other language versus just using the
other language's package via reticulate or R2Pi? Isn't it RPi2?
Yeah, yeah. Well, that's a really good question. Like why bother porting sometimes when you can
just use a really mature API and just use it from the other language, like easily through
that interface layer? I'm like, I think it's fun to actually port a package. I'm against the other
thing. I actually, and I kind of think maybe people, there's some subset of people that don't
want to do that, like interfacing part using R2Pi or the opposite, and just want the native API
to exist in some way. And I feel like there could be so many more of these. I was just
looking the other day for some sort of diagramming thing in Python. And I'm like, okay, this should
be a snap, Python. Of course, it would have GraphViz, it would have D2, it would have
Mermaid. It would just all be there. Yeah, it's ready to go. And it's like, no, there's not really
a good Mermaid package that allows you just to create these SVG sort of flow diagrams.
And for GraphViz, you have to have the GraphViz binary on your system, which is kind of like,
I mean, that's fine, but it seems like there's ways to not have it exist like that. So I'm like,
man, these are like, sometimes you just look around and you get package ideas from seeing
some deficiencies. And sometimes comparison with R kind of makes it clear, like there's this cool
thing in R, it doesn't really exist in Python. Yeah, do you think that has to do with the
priorities of the people who use the language though? Because I think that maybe that, like,
when I talk to people who are more on the Python side, they're like, I don't do DataViz,
why would I need to do DataViz? It might be that, yeah. And like, for instance, with tables,
I mean, there's some table stuff in Python, but not nearly as much as R. Like, when GT came out
in 2018, there was like, 10, like a dozen table packages. Right. And we've had table for a long
time. Yeah, exactly. And like, Python didn't have any of that stuff. Probably because it's not like
really much of a sort of like a publishing culture. Like, there's no R markdown. I mean,
of course, there's notebooks, but like, maybe. Right. A little bit less academic where people
are publishing more frequently. Yeah. Right. There are so many table packages for R.
There's like tons. Our hands-on table, which is amazing. Yeah. And they're all doing great. Like,
they're being maintained and, you know, they're all doing their things. All right. Well, we have
got to get to more questions. And there is one, David had asked one that I think that Dami asked
as well. So we're going to skip that one, which was, is there a package you wish you could work
on that you currently don't have time to? I guess that's a different one. Is there something you
wish you could devote more time to? Yeah, there's stuff. I don't want to like get into too many new
things because I'm already having trouble getting it, keeping it together with like the pile of
packages I do have to maintain and the ones I'm doing in R and Python. So it's dangerous, actually,
to get too far out there in the weeds with other things. But there's little itches I want to scratch
with packages. Like, I wouldn't mind doing like a workflow type package for Python, which I know
is a super crowded field. Workflow, like target style? Yeah, sort of like a light targets. Yeah,
they sort of schedule things on your computer. And it's pretty simple. I think the idea is you
try to go for simplicity and make it like light compared to all the other super mature and,
you know, like really well developed, but, you know, like heavy frameworks that exist in Python.
I get it. Yeah. All right. There is a comment from Tan. It's not a question, but it says,
I feel like I want a linter to just automatically fix the McGridder pipe usage. That would be so
complicated if you had a McGridder pipe that was like accessing a dot notation that wasn't going
to work in the native pipe. Gosh, somebody get on that. But that sounds hard. It sounds hard.
And I don't envy anybody that would do it, I guess. Tan, you volunteered yourself.
Okay. How about Linda's question? It says, I may have missed it, but I'm wondering what your next
tasks will be or what you assume they will be and how you define them, i.e., how autonomous are you
versus externally controlled? Yeah, I'm fairly autonomous in some ways. In terms of the packages
that I have, I want to keep maintaining them. There's still a lot of work to do with great
tables. There's still quite a bit of work to do with GT, you know, like not just maintenance,
but just making it better in lots of ways. And, of course, things like packages which I haven't
touched in a while, they do have to be maintained, like Blastula, which is mine, and a bunch of
other ones as well, like Pointblank for R. I still have to get back to that and fix tons and tons of
stuff, which is really bad. It's not really bad. You made an amazing utility feature-rich thing
that, like, you know, just the reality that it has to be maintained. Yeah, leaving stuff is fine,
but I'm really thankful that people like Hannah Frick have been helping with all sorts of things,
like new documentation and all sorts of surfacing other issues. Heck yeah, Hannah, I think Hannah's
here. And Juncho, who's been helping with a bunch of other things in the Pointblank R package.
Over here. Thank you so much. Yeah, I think that Hannah is here in the chat.
Lots of, like, round of applause for Hannah and all of the people who contribute and maintain
stuff and review PRs and all kinds of stuff. Yeah, it really helps because I feel totally
bad. Like some packages that are really good that have been left for some time and, I mean,
that can't be good. So that's part of it. So, like, in terms of, like, new stuff, I gotta be super
careful. It's gotta be well-intentioned in terms of, like, you know, it's gotta align with stuff
I'm already doing to make it worthwhile. And it can't, you know, lead to more sort of, like,
attention scatter, which I already have a problem with. Attention scatter is my middle name. All
right, Tan says Flur might be able to do it because it parses syntax trees. I feel like
all of the stuff happening with Positron is really opening up more abilities to, like,
do things with languages because it's got, we've now got, like, a tree setter for R and, like,
that's its own whole topic. But yeah, Tan is on the right track here. Okay, we have a question
from Gina. Gina is one of our speakers who's going to be speaking in just, like, an hour. So,
yay, Gina. It says, so, GT question, is there a grammar of tables reference that helped define
what needed to happen in GT like the grammar of graphics does for gtplot2, or did you kind of
derive the grammar yourself? What a great question. Yeah, it's partly, I've sort of added
things. But then, okay, I have this thing I lean on quite a bit. It's, like, this census manual
that was, like, I believe written in 1949, and it was luckily a scanned PDF online. If you look for,
like, department of the census guide to tabular presentation, just search that up. You'll be led
to, like, a PDF link, and it'll just open up. And it's, like, this huge book. It's, like, 200 pages
or thereabouts. And it talks about tables in such, like, satisfying detail. Like, what do you do with
footnotes? Like, there's a whole section on how do you, you know, like, how do you order footnotes?
Where do you put the actual mark of the note? Formatting text, like, formatting stuff on the
left-hand side of the stub. A lot of stuff came from that. And because it was such a good, I mean,
I've never seen such a compendium, like, such a complete work that just talks about tables
for so long. They're not just, like, you know, just, like, a set of guidelines. This is, like,
whole, like, like, work. And it was amazing. I wish I had it. I could just show it to you,
but, oh, you just, okay, you have the link. That's the one right there. Yes.
I put the link in the chat. I think they'll download the PDF if you click it, though. So,
like, be prepared to download something. Yeah. Instant PDF, like, right away. People get
surprised. But whoever put that up is, like, a visionary. Like, just keeps it up. Like, this is
amazing work. I load the day it may go down. Like, that link just becomes, like, it just dies.
Because I think tables die with that. Because there's so much in there. It's crazy.
I wish Joey Marshall was here, because we could be, like, yay, Joey. He's our census.gov.
Yeah. I mean, okay, the census had to go back in the 50s, yeah.
Yeah. I mean, the census is full of wonderful people, too. Like, everybody I've met who works
at the census is just, like, the nicest person ever. Okay. Let's move on to a Mike K. Smith
question. Hey, Mike K. Smith's music is going to be what we're using for trivia tonight. So,
if you hear the dulcet tones of some amazing ambient music in the background for trivia,
that's Mike. It says, what happened to the table renderer for other table packages?
Was mooted years ago, but did it emerge? I don't know what this means.
Yes. Yes. That actually may come back, because it's a really good idea, now more than ever,
that I'm working on gray tables in Python and also GTNR. So, basically, what it is,
is essentially you give it, like, representation of a table, which is really close to HTML,
and it just creates tables in other formats. It's kind of like a paddock for tables, in a way. And
that code is a bit stale. It's in TypeScript. I'm going to get back into that soon, I hope.
Because, essentially, it's going to do double duty. It's going to do all the stuff for R,
like GTNR, and also all the stuff for gray tables in Python. But, yeah, that piece is
very necessary. And maybe it was tried out too soon, before it was fully fleshed out.
But I still think it's a fantastic idea, and maybe a very necessary thing. Because, like,
who wants to, in different languages, like, you know, like, you know, always, you know,
have different renderers for a table, like, over and over again, and just kind of do it once,
and call it from, like, this, you know, like, one language. So, that's the idea with that.
That is the idea. All right.
It will be a thing again.
Keep your eyes peeled for it.
Yeah.
All right. I am scrolling through. I'm scrolling through. I'm looking for questions. I don't
think that I see any questions that we have missed. Everybody let me know, in the Discord chat,
if there is something that I have missed. If you asked a question, and I missed it,
put it back in.
Yeah.
Actually, Dami...
It makes an important point.
Oh, go ahead.
Is that, yeah, something, maybe it was, like, too early. Like, and I'm not sure it was not
well-received, that very thing. But it was probably just too early for that idea, I think.
But the idea is great. Like, it's nothing. Sometimes a great idea in the past could be
a great idea, like, in the future, or in the present.
Yeah. That's where we get the phrase, before our time, right? Like...
Yeah.
He was before his time. People weren't ready for him yet.
Yeah. Dami had asked, like, way, way, way up there. I think you had mentioned in the beginning,
and she said, can you explain what you mean by installing with your favorite tool?
You must have mentioned something about installing with your favorite tool.
Oh.
What was that?
Are we too far back to, like, remember the context for that one?
I can't remember the context. Context is gone. Favorite tool.
Oh, Dami says, no, that's someone else. Sorry, Dami.
Okay.
Okay. Well, we can move on from that, unless the person
in the comments lets us know that that was them.
Dami says, maybe it was about Python installing, since there's so many options, right? You've got
UV, you've got pip, you've got so many options when it comes to installing in Python.
Yeah.
Did everybody switch to UV? Because I have.
I have as well. And I use it in my CI as well. And I try to, I use, like, all the UV,
all the astral stuff, like, basically, like, rough and UV.
I have.
Anything on the future.
Do I use rough? I guess I do. Is rough what's, like, being used under the hood when I'm doing,
when I'm letting things get linted in the background?
Yeah. You do, like, on save. Yeah.
Yeah. Oh, man.
If anyone is.
Snaps in place.
If anyone's using Positron and you don't have format on save turned on, turn it on. Okay. I
have format on save turned on. And then I have the auto save functionality set to anytime focus is
taken out of the editor. So anytime I just, like, take my cursor out of the editor, maybe I put it
in the console, maybe I click the file pane, my code goes and fixes itself.
Yeah. It's like instant.
Yes. So it uses error in R and rough in Python, I believe. And it's just really, really good. Yeah.
Shishir says format on save is too good not to be turned on. Do it, people. Do it.
Yeah. We're spoiled these days when it comes to this stuff. Because I remember before,
like, before rough, it was, like, a few seconds wait on a larger code base.
Yeah.
And it's, like, sometimes you forget it's going to eventually change and you're doing stuff.
Focus changes.
Because now it's just, like, right away. It's, like, whoa.
Amazing. Thomas says if you're not doing get plus auto save on focus change, you're doing it wrong.
No arguments. I don't know about y'all, but I forget to save things. It's a chronic problem.
Everything will be untitled. All of my children are unnamed. It is.
I have so many untitled.
So I really, really need the reminder to have things save. And what happens is,
if I type something and I put my focus away and the code does not fix itself,
I know I have not saved my file. And then I'm, like, oh, yeah, it saves my butt all the time.
All right. One last question. Sadie says is there a positron thing you wish you learned this
week? Oh, Sadie, there are positron demos. So in the channel that says positron lounge,
there are going to be demos in the learning center if you're there in person, which is off
the lounge. But they're going to be live streamed. So the learning center, I believe,
is, like, the place where you'll go to watch those positron demo live streams.
Okay. Good question. I have to say thank you to Rich.
Yeah. This was great. I loved it.
This was so fun. Okay. We are going to close the Zoom in just a minute and sort of get ready to
transition to the next thing. Rich is going to hang out in the Discord server.
I'll be there.
And thanks, Rich. Do you want to say goodbye to everybody?
Bye, everybody. Thanks for so many questions. I'm sorry I couldn't answer them all either.
You did. You literally did answer every single question. I have a whole document where I've
been putting them in and highlighting them. Okay. That's not bad.
We did it. Lots of thanks in the chat here. This was amazing.